>> A thriving ancient culture
wiped out by rising waters
and a great tsunami.
Could the real
Atlantis be located
between Britain and Europe?
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
Along the coast of
the Netherlands,
the ocean has been
giving up its secrets.
About 10,000 years
ago, what is now
water was a landmass filled
with flora, fresh game,
and from what we can tell,
a flourishing civilization.
But at the end of the last
Ice Age, as glaciers melted,
sea levels rose, and what
remained of this area
is believed to have been
knocked out by a tsunami.
Dubbed Doggerland after
a Doggerbank, a sand bank
off the coast of England,
archeologists first
learned of the potential of
the Stone Age civilization
there in 1931 when a fishing
boat pulled up a barbed antler
spearhead.
There has been
interest in Doggerland
since then, but only
in the last decade
or so has there been intense
study using high-tech seafloor
mapping equipment and low-tech
citizen archeologists who
bring their finds to the
National Museum of Antiquities
in Leiden, Southern Holland.
Fishermen have found
the remains of mammoths,
hyenas, lions, as well as
prehistoric tools, weapons,
and a skull fragment.
Could this be the Atlantis
that Plato wrote about?
Some experts disagree.
Jack Cary, researcher and
author of Paranormal Planet.
>> There are various points that
connect Doggerland to the idea
that it could have been the
actual story of Atlantis.
And Doggerland fits all of the
pieces given to us by Plato,
which came to him by Solon
the Great who had actually
gone to Egypt and had
deciphered the Egyptian priest,
had him rewrite this history,
and he brought it back
to Greece.
And that's how we know about
Atlantis and Plato's Timaeus
writing.
And one of those
descriptions was
that it was beyond the pillars
of Hercules, which is the rock
formations of Gibraltar.
As a bird flies,
Doggerland is much closer
to where Plato was than any
of the other locations that
have been offered up as
possible locations for Atlantis.
And Doggerland was
and is described
as being by scientists a
prehistoric Garden of Eden.
>> Science and history
writer, Andrew Collins.
>> I don't believe that
Doggerland is the Atlantis
of Plato.
What I will say is
that it probably
contributed to European legends
of an equivalent Atlantis.
And some people have
even referred to
as Atlantis of the North.
And there are certainly
some Germanic legends
that talk about a lost kingdom
that probably is in that area.
And they probably,
therefore, are a member
of the Doggerland landmass.
>> Andrew Collins has also
written extensively about
the possible connection between
Gobekli Tepe and Doggerland.
>> The connection between
Doggerland and Gobekli Tepe
comes to the fact that we're
dealing essentially with
the same culture, those that
made those beautiful stone
enclosures in Southeast Turkey
by some 11,600 years ago
essentially come from the same
root salts as those that would
eventually come to
occupy Doggerland.
And those are people
known as the Swiderians.
What we find is that the stone
tools and bone tools that have
found at Doggerland which date
to the end of the last Ice
Age-- so again, around
the time of Gobekli Tepe--
they are identical to those
that were made by the Swiderians
much further east,
the society in places
like Lithuania and Estonia.
>> Who were the people who
settled on and later fled
Doggerland?
What is their significance
in the timeline of history?
>> I think what's
important about Doggerland
and the discoveries being
made there is that it is like
the missing link between
Gobekli Tepe and the megalithic
cultures, particularly
those at Britain.
The Doggerland people were the
mother or the foundation point
of certainly Britain's
megalithic culture
and arguably others in other
parts of Europe as well.
>> But what if we were able
to prove that Doggerland was
actually Atlantis?
>> The more we learn
about Doggerland,
the more it seems to fit the
perfect profile for Atlantis.
And if we can find that point,
that zero point where Atlantis
actually existed, we may
discover secrets we never even
dreamed possible.
We may discover
new technologies.
We may discover scrolls
or books, who knows?
But it could be a
vast treasure trove
that helps the human
race recover their lost
history from this
type of amnesia
that we seem to possess.
>> Was Doggerland the
Atlantis of Plato?
Is there a direct
connection to Gobekli Tepe?
Or is it some
combination of both?
As exploration continues,
we may learn the answer
to this mystery at
the bottom of the sea.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.